.TH ASSOC 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
assoc \- retrieve associative memories
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B assoc \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B assoc
\fB[\-pfile \fI\.\.\.\fP]
[\-tfile \fIstring\fP]
[\-local \fIinteger\fP]
[\-cut \fIdouble\fP]
[\-pprob \fIdouble\fP]
[\-noise \fIdouble\fP]
[\-seed \fIinteger\fP]
[\-steps \fIinteger\fP]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Attempt to reconstruct a potentially corrupted image from a 
McCulloch-Pitts feedback neural network that acts as an associative 
memory.  The weights of the network are determined via Hebb's rule 
after reading in multiple patterns.  Weights can be pruned either by 
size, locality, or randomly. 
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-pfile\ \fI\.\.\.\fP
File with pattern to store.
.IP \fB\-tfile\ \fIstring\fP
File with test pattern.
.IP \fB\-local\ \fIinteger\fP
locality of permitted weights
.IP \fB\-cut\ \fIdouble\fP
Cutoff size for weights.
.IP \fB\-pprob\ \fIdouble\fP
Probability of random pruning.
.IP \fB\-noise\ \fIdouble\fP
Amount of noise for test case.
.IP \fB\-seed\ \fIinteger\fP
Random seed for initial state.
.IP \fB\-steps\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of time steps.
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert all colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH MISCELLANY
All pattern files must be in the PBM file format. You can request
that multiple patterns be stored into the weights by using the
-pfile option multiple time.

The dimensions of the stored patterns and the test pattern must
be identical.

For weight pruning, the program first checks to see if a weight
is "non-local" which means that for a weight that connects two
neurons either the row indices or column indices differ by the
amount greater than the value specified by the -local option.
(If a value for local -local is zero, then all weights are used.)
Next, the program prunes weights that are too small in size as
specified by the -cut option.  If a weights has not been removed
at this stage, then it will still be pruned with probability as
specified by the -pprob option.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
