.TH BOIDS 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
boids \- simulate a flock of android birds from Brooklyn
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B boids \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B boids
\fB[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-num \fIinteger\fP]
[\-steps \fIinteger\fP]
[\-seed \fIinteger\fP]
[\-angle \fIdouble\fP]
[\-vangle \fIdouble\fP]
[\-rcopy \fIdouble\fP]
[\-rcent \fIdouble\fP]
[\-rvoid \fIdouble\fP]
[\-rviso \fIdouble\fP]
[\-wcopy \fIdouble\fP]
[\-wcent \fIdouble\fP]
[\-wvoid \fIdouble\fP]
[\-wviso \fIdouble\fP]
[\-wrand \fIdouble\fP]
[\-dt \fIdouble\fP]
[\-ddt \fIdouble\fP]
[\-minv \fIdouble\fP]
[\-len \fIinteger\fP]
[\-psdump]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Simulate a flock of boids according to rules that determine their 
individual behaviors as well as the ``physics'' of their universe. 
A boid greedily attempts to apply four rules with respect to its 
neighbors: it wants to fly in the same direction, be in the center 
of the local cluster of boids, avoid collisions with boids too close, 
and maintain a clear view ahead by skirting around others that block 
its view.  Changing these rules can make the boids behave like birds, 
gnats, bees, fish, or magnetic particles.  See the RULES section of 
the manual pages for more details.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-num\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of boids.
.IP \fB\-steps\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of simulated steps.
.IP \fB\-seed\ \fIinteger\fP
Random seed for initial state.
.IP \fB\-angle\ \fIdouble\fP
Number of viewing degrees.
.IP \fB\-vangle\ \fIdouble\fP
Visual avoidance angle.
.IP \fB\-rcopy\ \fIdouble\fP
Radius for copy vector.
.IP \fB\-rcent\ \fIdouble\fP
Radius for centroid vector.
.IP \fB\-rvoid\ \fIdouble\fP
Radius for avoidance vector.
.IP \fB\-rviso\ \fIdouble\fP
Radius for visual avoidance vector.
.IP \fB\-wcopy\ \fIdouble\fP
Weight for copy vector.
.IP \fB\-wcent\ \fIdouble\fP
Weight for centroid vector.
.IP \fB\-wvoid\ \fIdouble\fP
Weight for avoidance vector.
.IP \fB\-wviso\ \fIdouble\fP
Weight for visual avoidance vector.
.IP \fB\-wrand\ \fIdouble\fP
Weight for random vector.
.IP \fB\-dt\ \fIdouble\fP
Time-step increment.
.IP \fB\-ddt\ \fIdouble\fP
Momentum factor (0 < ddt < 1).
.IP \fB\-minv\ \fIdouble\fP
Minimum velocity.
.IP \fB\-len\ \fIinteger\fP
Tail length.
.IP \fB\-psdump
Dump PS at the very end?
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert all colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH RULES
All of the rules have a weight option and a radius option.
The radius option specifies how close a boid need to be to
another in order for the rule to be acted upon.  The weight
is used when combining all of the rules actions into a single
new velocity vector.

The four rules can be simply described as follows:

   Centering: move towards the center of any boids in my
              viewing area.

   Copying: attempt to move in the average direction of
            that all boids that can be seen are moving
            in.

   Avoidance: ``Please don't stand so close to me.''
                Move away from any close flyers.

   Visual: move in such a way that the bonehead
           obstructing your view no longer interferes.

The four rules are then normalized and added together to make
the next velocity vector of the boid.  All radii in the rules
are in terms of pixels.

You may wish to try turning on and off different combinations
of the rules to see how the boids' behaviors change.  For example,
if you turn off the avoidance rule, increase the centering radius
and weight, and increase the viewing angle to nearly 360 degrees,
then the boids will behave like a pack of wolves fighting over
the center.  Other changes can yield similar surprises.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
