.TH DIFFUSE 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
diffuse \- simulate diffusion limited aggregation
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B diffuse \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B diffuse
\fB[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-levels \fIinteger\fP]
[\-num \fIinteger\fP]
[\-steps \fIinteger\fP]
[\-invis]
[\-seed \fIinteger\fP]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
A special type of stochastic fractal is created by the random action of 
many particles.   The fractal starts out as a single point seed that is 
fixed in position.  Particles float about via a random walk.  Whenever 
a floating particle moves adjacent to fixed particle the floating 
particles become frozen in place.  In this way, the fractal gradually 
grows in size. 
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-levels\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of plot (gray) levels to use.
.IP \fB\-num\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of floating particles.
.IP \fB\-steps\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of simulated steps.
.IP \fB\-invis
Invisible particles?
.IP \fB\-seed\ \fIinteger\fP
Random seed for initial state.
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH MISCELLANY
Using invisible particle will make the simulation run much
faster under interactive graphic terminals, especially X Windows.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
