.TH EIPD 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
eipd \- simulate the ecological iterated Prisoner's Dilemma
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B eipd \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B eipd
\fB[\-steps \fIinteger\fP]
[\-rounds \fIinteger\fP]
[\-seed \fIinteger\fP]
[\-CC \fIdouble\fP]
[\-CD \fIdouble\fP]
[\-DC \fIdouble\fP]
[\-DD \fIdouble\fP]
[\-Iallc \fIdouble\fP]
[\-Itft \fIdouble\fP]
[\-Irand \fIdouble\fP]
[\-Ipav \fIdouble\fP]
[\-Ialld \fIdouble\fP]
[\-rcp \fIdouble\fP]
[\-noise \fIdouble\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The ecological iterated Prisoner's Dilemma is simulated  over time 
according to the specified parameters.  At every time step the population 
of each strategy is calculated as a function of the expected scores 
earned against all strategies weighted by the populations of the 
opponents.  Possible strategies include 'Always Cooperate,' 'Always Defect,' 
'Random,' 'Pavlov,' and 'Tit-for-Tat.'
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-steps\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of steps to simulate.
.IP \fB\-rounds\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of rounds per step.
.IP \fB\-seed\ \fIinteger\fP
Random seed for initial state.
.IP \fB\-CC\ \fIdouble\fP
Reward Payoff.
.IP \fB\-CD\ \fIdouble\fP
Sucker Payoff.
.IP \fB\-DC\ \fIdouble\fP
Temptation Payoff.
.IP \fB\-DD\ \fIdouble\fP
Punish Payoff.
.IP \fB\-Iallc\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial population of All-C.
.IP \fB\-Itft\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial population of TFT.
.IP \fB\-Irand\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial population of Random.
.IP \fB\-Ipav\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial population of Pavlov.
.IP \fB\-Ialld\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial population of All-D.
.IP \fB\-rcp\ \fIdouble\fP
Probability of C for Random strategy.
.IP \fB\-noise\ \fIdouble\fP
Probability of noise.
.SH PAYOFFS
The payoff matrix for the Prisoner's Dilemma game is usually
expressed as:
                          Player B's Move
                     +-----------+-----------+
     Player A's Move | cooperate |  defect   |
         +-----------+-----------+-----------+
         | cooperate |  CC, CC   |  CD, DC   |
         +-----------+-----------+-----------+
         |    defect |  DC, CD   |  DD, DD   |
         +-----------+-----------+-----------+

where the table entries are (A's payoff, B's payoff) and
CC, CD, DC, and DD are the reward, sucker, temptation,
and punish payoffs, respectively.  For each of these four
outcomes you will probably want the payoffs to reflect the
relationships:  

     (DC > CC > DD > CD) and ((CD + DC) / 2 < CC).
.SH MISCELLANY
random noise (via the -noise option) manifests itself as a
cell making a randomly selected move in a single round.  In
this case, both the cell whose action was altered as well as
that cell's opponents "remember" what the random move was on
the next round.

During each time step, every strategy plays against every 
other strategy as well as against itself.

The initial population levels for all strategies will be
normalized, so the scaling of the option values is irrelevant.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
