.TH GATASK 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
gatask \- solve a task assignment problem via a genetic algorithm
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B gatask \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B gatask
\fB[\-specs \fIstring\fP]
[\-size \fIinteger\fP]
[\-gens \fIinteger\fP]
[\-seed \fIinteger\fP]
[\-crate \fIdouble\fP]
[\-mrate \fIdouble\fP]
[\-pbase \fIdouble\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Use a genetic algorithm to solve a task assignment problem with 
user-specified costs.  This program illustrates how GAs can perform 
combinatorial optimization.  Reproduction of strings entails 
special crossover and mutation operations which preserve 
constraints on the form of feasible solutions with strings being 
selected based on fitness.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-specs\ \fIstring\fP
Problem specification file.
.IP \fB\-size\ \fIinteger\fP
Population size.
.IP \fB\-gens\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of generations.
.IP \fB\-seed\ \fIinteger\fP
Random seed.
.IP \fB\-crate\ \fIdouble\fP
Crossover rate.
.IP \fB\-mrate\ \fIdouble\fP
Mutation rate.
.IP \fB\-pbase\ \fIdouble\fP
Exponentiation base.
.SH MISCELLANY
Feasible solutions are represented as an array of LEN integers
which must contain all integers between 0 and LEN - 1 to denote
which person performs which task.  As such, the mutation and
crossover operators have to be subtly redefined so that candidate
solutions are still feasible after they are crossed and mutated.

For mutation, we simply swap two locations in a solution array.

Crossing two solutions is a little more complicated.  Consult
the source code to see how it's done in a manner that preserves
the feasibility of the two children while blending portions of
each parent solution.

The fitness function works in three steps.  First, the score of a
solution is calculated and denoted the raw fitness.  The scaled
fitness is then set to pow(PBASE, raw fitness - worst raw fitness).
The normalized fitness is then set to the scaled fitness divided by
the sum of the scaled fitnesses.  Thus the sum of the normalized
fitnesses must be equal to one while a string with a raw score
of one better than another string is PBASE times as likely to
reproduce, where PBASE is the value supplied with the -pbase
option.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
