.TH GSW 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
gsw \- simulate a three species individual\-based ecosystem
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B gsw \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B gsw
\fB[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-steps \fIinteger\fP]
[\-seed \fIinteger\fP]
[\-plants \fIinteger\fP]
[\-herbs \fIinteger\fP]
[\-carns \fIinteger\fP]
[\-pmin \fIinteger\fP]
[\-pmax \fIinteger\fP]
[\-Ep \fIinteger\fP]
[\-Eh \fIinteger\fP]
[\-Ec \fIinteger\fP]
[\-Ch \fIinteger\fP]
[\-Cc \fIinteger\fP]
[\-Pt \fIinteger\fP]
[\-samp \fIinteger\fP]
[\-stats]
[\-pfreq \fIinteger\fP]
[\-noext]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The time evolution of an individual-based three species predator-prey 
ecosystem is simulated according to the specified parameters.  The three 
species consist of plants, herbivores, and carnivores (grass, sheep, and 
wolves; hence the name GSW).  Updates are done synchronously, and each 
species has several parameters which can control the life cycle, from 
the ability to give birth, to the likelihood of starvation.  Population 
statistics of the three species can be calculated over a subset of the 
entire grid.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-steps\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of simulated steps.
.IP \fB\-seed\ \fIinteger\fP
Random seed for initial state.
.IP \fB\-plants\ \fIinteger\fP
Initial number of plants.
.IP \fB\-herbs\ \fIinteger\fP
Initial number of herbivores.
.IP \fB\-carns\ \fIinteger\fP
Initial number of carnivores.
.IP \fB\-pmin\ \fIinteger\fP
Minimum plants in vicinity to make new plant.
.IP \fB\-pmax\ \fIinteger\fP
Maximum allowed plants in vicinity to make new plant.
.IP \fB\-Ep\ \fIinteger\fP
Energy of plant.
.IP \fB\-Eh\ \fIinteger\fP
Energy of herbivore.
.IP \fB\-Ec\ \fIinteger\fP
Energy of carnivore.
.IP \fB\-Ch\ \fIinteger\fP
Step energy cost for herbivores.
.IP \fB\-Cc\ \fIinteger\fP
Step energy cost for carnivores.
.IP \fB\-Pt\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of steps to grow plant.
.IP \fB\-samp\ \fIinteger\fP
Size of subsample statistaics.
.IP \fB\-stats
Show statistics?
.IP \fB\-pfreq\ \fIinteger\fP
Plot frequency.
.IP \fB\-noext
Prevent extinction?
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH MISCELLANY
An interesting change to this code would involve making the
the updates asynchronous, which would avoid some subtle deadlock
conditions that can occur in how the critters move.  Moreover,
the motion of the overall system would probably be more "lifelike".
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
