.TH HENBIF 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
henbif \- plot a bifurcation diagram for the Henon system
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B henbif \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B henbif
\fB[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-skip \fIinteger\fP]
[\-abmin \fIdouble\fP]
[\-abmax \fIdouble\fP]
[\-ab]
[\-A \fIdouble\fP]
[\-B \fIdouble\fP]
[\-factor \fIdouble\fP]
[\-ymin \fIdouble\fP]
[\-ymax \fIdouble\fP]
[\-box \fIinteger\fP]
[\-brmin \fIdouble\fP]
[\-brmax \fIdouble\fP]
[\-bymin \fIdouble\fP]
[\-bymax \fIdouble\fP]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
A bifurcation diagram of the Henon system, which is described by 
the equation x(t+1) = A - x(t)^2 + B * x(t - 1), is plotted 
according to the specified parameters.  Either of the parameters 
(A or B) can be varied in the plot. 
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-skip\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of initial points to skip.
.IP \fB\-abmin\ \fIdouble\fP
Smallest value for A (or B).
.IP \fB\-abmax\ \fIdouble\fP
Largest value for A (or B).
.IP \fB\-ab
If TRUE, plot for A; B otherwise.
.IP \fB\-A\ \fIdouble\fP
Value of the A parameter.
.IP \fB\-B\ \fIdouble\fP
Value of the B parameter.
.IP \fB\-factor\ \fIdouble\fP
Multiplicative factor for iterates.
.IP \fB\-ymin\ \fIdouble\fP
Smallest value for y range.
.IP \fB\-ymax\ \fIdouble\fP
Largest value for y range.
.IP \fB\-box\ \fIinteger\fP
Line width for a box.
.IP \fB\-brmin\ \fIdouble\fP
Smallest r-value for the box.
.IP \fB\-brmax\ \fIdouble\fP
Largest r-value for the box.
.IP \fB\-bymin\ \fIdouble\fP
Smallest value for box y range.
.IP \fB\-bymax\ \fIdouble\fP
Largest value for box y range.
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert all colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
