.TH HENCON 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
hencon \- control the Henon system with the OGY control law
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B hencon \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B hencon
\fB[\-points \fIinteger\fP]
[\-on1 \fIinteger\fP]
[\-off \fIinteger\fP]
[\-on2 \fIinteger\fP]
[\-skip \fIinteger\fP]
[\-seed \fIinteger\fP]
[\-plimit \fIdouble\fP]
[\-A \fIdouble\fP]
[\-B \fIdouble\fP]
[\-gauss \fIdouble\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Control the Henon system, x(t+1) = A - x(t)^2 + B * x(t - 1), 
with the OGY control law for arbitrary choices of A and B.  The 
control law is analytically calculated based on the system parameters. 
The user can select times in which control is turned on and off so that 
time-to-control and transients can be observed.  Gaussian noise can 
also be injected into the system.  The control timing options are 
constrained to obey (0 <= on1 <= off <= on2 <= points).
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-points\ \fIinteger\fP
The length of the time series.
.IP \fB\-on1\ \fIinteger\fP
Where to turn control on.
.IP \fB\-off\ \fIinteger\fP
Where to turn control off.
.IP \fB\-on2\ \fIinteger\fP
Where to turn control on again.
.IP \fB\-skip\ \fIinteger\fP
Amount to skip initially.
.IP \fB\-seed\ \fIinteger\fP
Random seed.
.IP \fB\-plimit\ \fIdouble\fP
Largest allowed size for p.
.IP \fB\-A\ \fIdouble\fP
Value of the A parameter.
.IP \fB\-B\ \fIdouble\fP
Value of the B parameter.
.IP \fB\-gauss\ \fIdouble\fP
Magnitude of Gaussian noise.
.SH BUGS
Few sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
