.TH HENON 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
henon \- plot the phase space of the Henon system
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B henon \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B henon
\fB[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-skip \fIinteger\fP]
[\-swap]
[\-points \fIinteger\fP]
[\-delay \fIinteger\fP]
[\-A \fIdouble\fP]
[\-B \fIdouble\fP]
[\-ulx \fIdouble\fP]
[\-uly \fIdouble\fP]
[\-lly \fIdouble\fP]
[\-box \fIinteger\fP]
[\-bulx \fIdouble\fP]
[\-buly \fIdouble\fP]
[\-blly \fIdouble\fP]
[\-data]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The phase space of the Henon system, which is described by the equation 
x(t+1) = A - x(t)^2 + B * x(t - 1), is plotted according to the 
specified parameters. 
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-skip\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of initial points to skip.
.IP \fB\-swap
Swap the x and y axis?
.IP \fB\-points\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of points to plot.
.IP \fB\-delay\ \fIinteger\fP
Time steps to delay for.
.IP \fB\-A\ \fIdouble\fP
Value of the A parameter.
.IP \fB\-B\ \fIdouble\fP
Value of the B parameter.
.IP \fB\-ulx\ \fIdouble\fP
Upper-left corner x-coordinate.
.IP \fB\-uly\ \fIdouble\fP
Upper-left corner y-coordinate.
.IP \fB\-lly\ \fIdouble\fP
Lower-left corner y-coordinate.
.IP \fB\-box\ \fIinteger\fP
Line width for a box.
.IP \fB\-bulx\ \fIdouble\fP
Box's upper-left x-coordinate.
.IP \fB\-buly\ \fIdouble\fP
Box's upper-left y-coordinate.
.IP \fB\-blly\ \fIdouble\fP
Box's lower-left y-coordinate.
.IP \fB\-data
Don't plot, but print points.
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert all colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH MISCELLANY
The method for choosing the viewable region may seem
counter-intuitive at first, but it has some nice properties.  In
particular, selecting the exact (x, y) coordinates for the
upper-left corner and only selecting the lower right y coordinate
forces both the x and y scales to be identical since all scales
are uniquely determined by these values along with the plot
width and height.  If you then change the width or height of the
plot, the relative scales will still match up.  The options for
making a box work similarly.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
