.TH LIFE 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
life \- play Conway's Game of Life
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B life \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B life
\fB[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-extra \fIinteger\fP]
[\-wrap]
[\-infile \fIstring\fP]
[\-steps \fIinteger\fP]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Simulate Conway's Game of Life with an arbitrary set of initial 
conditions.  Input files need to be in the PBM file format.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-extra\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of extra border pixels.
.IP \fB\-wrap
Wrap around world?
.IP \fB\-infile\ \fIstring\fP
Initial configuration file
.IP \fB\-steps\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of time steps to simulate.
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert all colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH MISCELLANY
You will need to use the -extra option in conjuction with
the -wrap option if you wish to simulate moving objects that
tend to fly off in one direction.  Periodic patterns may need
the -extra option to give them a little bit of extra room to
work in.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH CREDITS
The data files for the initial states supplied with this
program were lifted and converted from the excellent and free
program xlife. 
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
