.TH LSYS 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
lsys \- builds an L\-system fractal from multiple rules
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B lsys \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B lsys
\fB[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-border \fIinteger\fP]
[\-depth \fIinteger\fP]
[\-a0 \fIdouble\fP]
[\-da \fIdouble\fP]
[\-ds \fIdouble\fP]
[\-unoise \fIdouble\fP]
[\-rule \fI\.\.\.\fP ]
[\-axiom \fIstring\fP]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
An L-system is computed according to the specified axiom, rules, 
and step angle.  The L-system axiom is recursively expanded for the 
specified depth, with 'F', 'G', and '|' actions resulting in movement 
of the virtual plotter, and '+' and '-' commands resulting in rotation 
of the virtual plotter.  See the RULES section of the manual page for 
more information on the format for legal rules. 
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-border\ \fIinteger\fP
Approximate number of border pixels.
.IP \fB\-depth\ \fIinteger\fP
Recursion depth to use.
.IP \fB\-a0\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial angle.
.IP \fB\-da\ \fIdouble\fP
Delta angle for '+' and '-' commands.
.IP \fB\-ds\ \fIdouble\fP
Delta step size.  Only affects '|' commands and should be less than 1.
.IP \fB\-unoise\ \fIdouble\fP
Amount of uniform noise to add to step angle.
.IP \fB\-rule\ \fI\.\.\.\fP 
Specify a production rule.  See RULES section of manual page.
.IP \fB\-axiom\ \fIstring\fP
Starting axiom.
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert all colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH RULES
The L-system rules should always take the form "x=..." where
"x" is a letter and the remaining portion is a sequence of
turtle graphics commands, which operate as described below.

\'F\' is the draw forward command, which moves the plotter
forward by a fixed length, drawing a line from the old
position to the new position.

\'G\' (Go Forward) is similar to \'F\', but only moves the
plotter and does not draw a line.

\'+\' and \'-\' turn the plotter to the right (or left) by a
fixed angle determined by the -da switch.  If an integer
precedes the \'+\' or \'-\' symbol, then the plotter
effectively makes that number of right-hand turns.

\'[\' saves the current position and angle of the plotter
for later use, which is restored by the \']\' command.

\'|\' move the turtle forward by a length computed from
the execution depth, drawing a line from the old position
to the new.  Thus, this command is similar to \'F\' but it
is not recursively expanded.  If DS is the value supplied
by the \fB-ds\fP switch, then the step size will be proportional
to DS^depth.  This allows for certain types of figures to
be drawn that would otherwise be difficult to express
without this command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP A\ weed:
\fBlsys -da 20 -rule "F=|[-F]|[+F][-F]F"\fP
.IP Kock\ curve:
\fBlsys -da 60 -rule F=F-F++F-F\fP
.IP Penrose\ Snowflake:
\fBlsys -da 18 -axiom F4-F4-F4-F4-F -rule F=F4-F4-F10-F++F4-F\fP
.IP Sierpinski\ Arrowhead:
\fBlsys -da 60 -rule "F=[-G+++F][-G+F][GG--F]" -rule G=GG\fP
.LP
See the author's book, "The Computational Beauty of Nature," for
more examples.
.SH MISCELLANY
If you are using a UNIX command shell, be sure to quote any rules
with brackets so that the shell passes them to the program correctly.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.

The border size is only approximately calculated because the
author felt a bit lazy at the time of writing this program.
However, it's pretty close for most values.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
