.TH MANDEL 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
mandel \- make a plot the Mandelbrot set
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B mandel \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B mandel
\fB[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-maxit \fIinteger\fP]
[\-levels \fIinteger\fP]
[\-bail \fIdouble\fP]
[\-ulx \fIdouble\fP]
[\-uly \fIdouble\fP]
[\-lly \fIdouble\fP]
[\-box \fIinteger\fP]
[\-bulx \fIdouble\fP]
[\-buly \fIdouble\fP]
[\-blly \fIdouble\fP]
[\-idiv \fIinteger\fP]
[\-rev]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Mandelbrot set is drawn according to the specified parameters.  The  
image is computed by iterating the complex equation z(t) = (z(t-1))^2  
+ c, where c is the complex point (x + yi) that corresponds to an (x, 
y) screen coordinate and the initial value of z(0) = 0.  If the system 
diverges at time k (i.e., |z(k)| > BAIL) then a point at (x, y) is 
plotted with the grayscale color (k / IDIV + (k % IDIV) * (LEVELS / 
IDIV)) % LEVELS), which reduces to (k % LEVELS) with an IDIV of 1. 
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-maxit\ \fIinteger\fP
Maximum number of iterations before automatic bail-out.
.IP \fB\-levels\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of plot (gray) levels to use.
.IP \fB\-bail\ \fIdouble\fP
Value of |z| to end iteration, i.e., the bailout value.
.IP \fB\-ulx\ \fIdouble\fP
Upper-left corner x-coordinate.
.IP \fB\-uly\ \fIdouble\fP
Upper-left corner y-coordinate.
.IP \fB\-lly\ \fIdouble\fP
Lower-left corner y-coordinate.
.IP \fB\-box\ \fIinteger\fP
Line width for a box.  If zero, no box is drawn.
.IP \fB\-bulx\ \fIdouble\fP
Box's upper-left x-coordinate.
.IP \fB\-buly\ \fIdouble\fP
Box's upper-left y-coordinate.
.IP \fB\-blly\ \fIdouble\fP
Box's lower-left y-coordinate.
.IP \fB\-idiv\ \fIinteger\fP
Iteration divisor.   When greater than one, this creates a banding effect.
.IP \fB\-rev
Reverse all colors but first?
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert all colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH COLORS
The four permutations of using or not using -rev and -inv will
yield four different coloring schemes.  Try it and see.
.SH MISCELLANY
The method for choosing the viewable region may seem
counter-intuitive at first, but it has some nice properties.  In
particular, selecting the exact (x, y) coordinates for the
upper-left corner and only selecting the lower right y coordinate
forces both the x and y scales to be identical since all scales
are uniquely determined by these values along with the plot
width and height.  If you then change the width or height of the
plot, the relative scales will still match up.  The options for
making a box work similarly.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.  In particular, the bounding corners can be
screwed up, and division by zero can occur with a malicious
setting of IDIV.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
