.TH MG 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
mg \- plot the phase space of the Mackey\-Glass system
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B mg \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B mg
\fB[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-skip \fIinteger\fP]
[\-points \fIinteger\fP]
[\-delta \fIinteger\fP]
[\-tau \fIinteger\fP]
[\-A \fIdouble\fP]
[\-B \fIdouble\fP]
[\-dt \fIdouble\fP]
[\-x0 \fIdouble\fP]
[\-factor \fIdouble\fP]
[\-data]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The phase space of the Mackey-Glass system, which is described by the 
delay differential equation 

dx(t)/dt = A * x(t-Tau) / (1 + x(t-Tau)^10) - B * x(t), 

is plotted according to the specified parameters.  The x-coordinate of 
the plot is determined by x(t) while the y-coordinate is determined by 
x(t-delta).
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-skip\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of initial points to skip.
.IP \fB\-points\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of points to plot.
.IP \fB\-delta\ \fIinteger\fP
Time steps to delay for.
.IP \fB\-tau\ \fIinteger\fP
Value of the Tau parameter.
.IP \fB\-A\ \fIdouble\fP
Value of the A parameter.
.IP \fB\-B\ \fIdouble\fP
Value of the B parameter.
.IP \fB\-dt\ \fIdouble\fP
Time step size.
.IP \fB\-x0\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial X value.
.IP \fB\-factor\ \fIdouble\fP
Auto-scale expansion factor.
.IP \fB\-data
Don't plot, but print points.
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert all colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH MISCELLANY
The plot region is determined by the points that are initially
skipped.  If this number is too small (i.e., it is not very
representative of the range of the plotted values), then you
may need to increase the number specified by the -skip option.
Alternatively, you can adjust the value given to -factor, which
simply fractionally increases the border of the plot.

The program uses a second-order Euler's method to perform the
numerical integration, which is sufficient for simple tasks such
as this.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
