.TH MRCM 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
mrcm \- generate fractals with the MRCM algorithm
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B mrcm \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B mrcm
\fB[\-infile \fIstring\fP]
[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-depth \fIinteger\fP]
[\-border \fIinteger\fP]
[\-bw \fIdouble\fP]
[\-bh \fIdouble\fP]
[\-L]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
An affine fractal is computed via the Multiple Reduction Copy Machine 
Algorithm.  The rules must be supplied from a file with each line 
consisting of six values (A-F) such that the values of A-D describe 
a 2x2 matrix (A, B; C, D), while E and F describes a 2x1 column vector 
(E; F).
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-infile\ \fIstring\fP
Data input file.
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-depth\ \fIinteger\fP
Depth of recursive calls.
.IP \fB\-border\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of pixels in border.
.IP \fB\-bw\ \fIdouble\fP
Width of the seed box.
.IP \fB\-bh\ \fIdouble\fP
Height of the seed box.
.IP \fB\-L
Draw an 'L' in each box?
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.SH MISCELLANY
There is a shell script called 'ifscma' supplied with the source
code that has a simple interface that allows you to reference
sets of predefined rules by name.  You may also wish to see the
author's book, "The Computational Beauty of Nature," for
some more examples.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.

The maximum number of affine rules is determined by the
constant MAXRULES, which you may need to adjust under exceptional
circumstances.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
