.TH PHASE1D 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
phase1d \- plot phase\-space of a one\-dimensional map
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B phase1d \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B phase1d
\fB[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-points \fIinteger\fP]
[\-skip \fIinteger\fP]
[\-r \fIdouble\fP]
[\-aux \fIdouble\fP]
[\-x0 \fIdouble\fP]
[\-dx \fIdouble\fP]
[\-func \fIstring\fP]
[\-arrows]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
A phase-space diagram is plotted for a one-dimensional map 
according to the specified options.  If the option for -dx is 
non-zero, then two trajectories are plotted: one staring at x0, 
and the other starting at (x0 + dx).  See the MAPS section of the 
manual page for details of what maps are supported.  User defined 
maps can be added to the file maps1d.c, but you must recompile 
the program. 
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-points\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of points to plot.
.IP \fB\-skip\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of points to skip.
.IP \fB\-r\ \fIdouble\fP
Value for r.
.IP \fB\-aux\ \fIdouble\fP
Auxiliary map parameter.
.IP \fB\-x0\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial value for x.
.IP \fB\-dx\ \fIdouble\fP
Difference for second trajectory.
.IP \fB\-func\ \fIstring\fP
Map function to use (one of 'log', 'tent', 'sin', or 'gauss').
.IP \fB\-arrows
Show arrows to indicate directions?
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert all colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH MAPS
The following four one-dimensional maps are allowed:
.IP Logistic\ Map:
x(t+1) = 4 * r * x(t) * (1.0 - x(t))
.IP Tent\ Map:
x(t+1) = (x(t) <= 0.5) ? 2 * r * x(t) : 2r * (1.0 - x(t))
.IP Sine\ Map:
x(t+1) = sin(x(t) * PI * aux * 2 * r) / 2 + 0.5
.IP Gaussian\ Map:
x(t+1) = r * exp(-aux * (x(t) - 0.5) * (x(t) - 0.5))
.LP
See the file "maps1d.c" to see how to add user-defined maps.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
