.TH ROSSLER 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
rossler \- plot the phase space of the Rossler system
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B rossler \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B rossler
\fB[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-skip \fIinteger\fP]
[\-points \fIinteger\fP]
[\-A \fIdouble\fP]
[\-B \fIdouble\fP]
[\-C \fIdouble\fP]
[\-delta \fIinteger\fP]
[\-dt \fIdouble\fP]
[\-x0 \fIdouble\fP]
[\-y0 \fIdouble\fP]
[\-z0 \fIdouble\fP]
[\-data]
[\-xp \fIstring\fP]
[\-yp \fIstring\fP]
[\-factor \fIdouble\fP]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The phase space of the Rossler system, which is described by the 
three differential equations 

dx/dt = -y - z, 

dy/dt = A * y + x, and 

dz/dt = B + x * z - C * z, 

is plotted according to the specified parameters.  Valid arguments 
passed with the -xp and -yp options can be any one of x(t), y(t), z(t), 
x(t-delta), y(t-delta), or z(t-delta).  Thus, the displayed plot can 
take the form of a state space plot or a delayed coordinate plot.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-skip\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of initial points to skip.
.IP \fB\-points\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of points to plot.
.IP \fB\-A\ \fIdouble\fP
Value of the A parameter.
.IP \fB\-B\ \fIdouble\fP
Value of the B parameter.
.IP \fB\-C\ \fIdouble\fP
Value of The C parameter.
.IP \fB\-delta\ \fIinteger\fP
Time delay term.
.IP \fB\-dt\ \fIdouble\fP
Time step.
.IP \fB\-x0\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial X value.
.IP \fB\-y0\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial Y value.
.IP \fB\-z0\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial Z value.
.IP \fB\-data
Don't plot, but print points.
.IP \fB\-xp\ \fIstring\fP
X-coordinate for plot.
.IP \fB\-yp\ \fIstring\fP
Y-coordinate for plot.
.IP \fB\-factor\ \fIdouble\fP
Auto-scale expansion factor.
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert all colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH MISCELLANY
The plot region is determined by the points that are initially
skipped.  If this number is too small (i.e., it is not very
representative of the range of the plotted values), then you
may need to increase the number specified by the -skip option.
Alternatively, you can adjust the value given to -factor, which
simply fractionally increases the border of the plot.

The program uses a second-order Euler's method to perform the
numerical integration, which is sufficient for simple tasks such
as this.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
