.TH SIPD 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
sipd \- simulate the spatial iterated Prisoner's Dilemma
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B sipd \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B sipd
\fB[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-steps \fIinteger\fP]
[\-rounds \fIinteger\fP]
[\-seed \fIinteger\fP]
[\-CC \fIdouble\fP]
[\-CD \fIdouble\fP]
[\-DC \fIdouble\fP]
[\-DD \fIdouble\fP]
[\-Iallc \fIdouble\fP]
[\-Itft \fIdouble\fP]
[\-Irand \fIdouble\fP]
[\-Ipav \fIdouble\fP]
[\-Ialld \fIdouble\fP]
[\-rcp \fIdouble\fP]
[\-noise \fIdouble\fP]
[\-mute \fIdouble\fP]
[\-stats]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The spatial iterated Prisoner's Dilemma is simulated and plotted over 
time according to the specified parameters.  Each cell in a grid plays 
a specific strategy against its eight neighbors for several rounds. 
At the end of the last round, each cell copies the strategy of its 
most succesful neighbor, which is then used for the next time step. 
Possible strategies include 'Always Cooperate,' 'Always Defect,' 
'Random,' 'Pavlov,' and 'Tit-for-Tat.'
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of world.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of world.
.IP \fB\-steps\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of steps to simulate.
.IP \fB\-rounds\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of rounds per step.
.IP \fB\-seed\ \fIinteger\fP
Random seed for initial state.
.IP \fB\-CC\ \fIdouble\fP
Reward Payoff.
.IP \fB\-CD\ \fIdouble\fP
Sucker Payoff.
.IP \fB\-DC\ \fIdouble\fP
Temptation Payoff.
.IP \fB\-DD\ \fIdouble\fP
Punish Payoff.
.IP \fB\-Iallc\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial population of All-C.
.IP \fB\-Itft\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial population of TFT.
.IP \fB\-Irand\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial population of Random.
.IP \fB\-Ipav\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial population of Pavlov.
.IP \fB\-Ialld\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial population of All-D.
.IP \fB\-rcp\ \fIdouble\fP
Probability of C for Random strategy.
.IP \fB\-noise\ \fIdouble\fP
Probability of noise.
.IP \fB\-mute\ \fIdouble\fP
Probability of mutation.
.IP \fB\-stats
Print statistics?
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert all colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH PAYOFFS
The payoff matrix for the Prisoner's Dilemma game is usually
expressed as:
                          Player B's Move
                     +-----------+-----------+
     Player A's Move | cooperate |  defect   |
         +-----------+-----------+-----------+
         | cooperate |  CC, CC   |  CD, DC   |
         +-----------+-----------+-----------+
         |    defect |  DC, CD   |  DD, DD   |
         +-----------+-----------+-----------+

where the table entries are (A's payoff, B's payoff) and
CC, CD, DC, and DD are the reward, sucker, temptation,
and punish payoffs, respectively.  For each of these four
outcomes you will probably want the payoffs to reflect the
relationships:  

     (DC > CC > DD > CD) and ((CD + DC) / 2 < CC).
.SH MISCELLANY
The option for the probability of mutation (-mute) corresponds
to the act of a cell spontaneously changing to a randomly
selected strategy independent of the outcome of the most recent
set of rounds.

random noise (via the -noise option) manifests itself as a
cell making a randomly selected move in a single round.  In
this case, both the cell whose action was altered as well as
that cell's opponents "remember" what the random move was on
the next round.

The value supplied with the -term option may be "none," in
which case no graphic output is performed.  This is useful
if you simply want the statistics to be calculated for each
time step (via the -stats option).

The initial population levels for all strategies will be
normalized, so the scaling of the option values is irrelevant.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
