.TH TERMITE 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
termite \- simulate a population of termites
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B termite \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B termite
\fB[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-num \fIinteger\fP]
[\-dense \fIdouble\fP]
[\-steps \fIinteger\fP]
[\-seed \fIinteger\fP]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Simulate a population of termites which do a random walk while possibly 
carrying a wood chip.  Under normal circumstances, the termites will 
self-organize and move the wood chips into piles without a global leader. 
The termites' behavior is dictated by the following set of rules: 
If a termite is not carrying anything and she bumps into 
a chip, then she picks it up, reverses direction, and continues with the 
random walk.  If she is carrying a chip and bumps into another, she drops 
her chip, turns around, and starts walking again.  Otherwise, she just 
does a random walk whether she is carrying a chip or not.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-num\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of termites in population.
.IP \fB\-dense\ \fIdouble\fP
Density of chips at start.
.IP \fB\-steps\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of simulated steps.
.IP \fB\-seed\ \fIinteger\fP
Random seed for initial state.
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert all colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH MISCELLANY
The walking pattern of the termites is not actually a strict
random walk.  Instead, at each time step they randomly turn
-45, 0, or 45 degrees with equal probability.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
