.TH VANTS 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
vants \- simulate a population of generalized virtual ants
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B vants \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B vants
\fB[\-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-height \fIinteger\fP]
[\-num \fIinteger\fP]
[\-rule \fIstring\fP]
[\-dense \fIdouble\fP]
[\-steps \fIinteger\fP]
[\-seed \fIinteger\fP]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Simulate and plot a population of virtual ants (vants).  The behavior 
of the vants is determined by a bit string with length equal to the 
number of states that each cell in the vants' grid world can take.  If 
a vant walks on a cell in state S, then the vant turns right if the 
S'th bit of the rule string is 1 and left if it's 0.  As it leaves the 
cell the vant changes the state of the old cell to 
(S + 1) % NUMSTATES.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-width\ \fIinteger\fP
Width of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-height\ \fIinteger\fP
Height of the plot in pixels.
.IP \fB\-num\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of ants.
.IP \fB\-rule\ \fIstring\fP
Rule string.
.IP \fB\-dense\ \fIdouble\fP
Density of random crud.
.IP \fB\-steps\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of simulated steps.
.IP \fB\-seed\ \fIinteger\fP
Random seed for initial state.
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert all colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH MISCELLANY
It is definitely worthwhile to simulate multiple vants as
the possible composite behavior of multiple vants is far 
different than a single vant.  In fact, multiple vants can
invert the work of other vants, which yields interesting
deconstructive behavior.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
