.TH ZCSCUP 1
.SH NAME
.PD 0
.TP
zcscup \- run a zeroth level classifier system on the cups problem
.PD 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.TP
.B zcscup \fB-help
.LP
\ \ or
.TP
.B zcscup
\fB[\-specs \fIstring\fP]
[\-steps \fIinteger\fP]
[\-seed \fIinteger\fP]
[\-size \fIinteger\fP]
[\-sinit \fIdouble\fP]
[\-lrate \fIdouble\fP]
[\-drate \fIdouble\fP]
[\-trate \fIdouble\fP]
[\-crate \fIdouble\fP]
[\-mrate \fIdouble\fP]
[\-grate \fIdouble\fP]
[\-cover \fIdouble\fP]
[\-wild \fIdouble\fP]
[\-avelen \fIinteger\fP]
[\-inv]
[\-mag \fIinteger\fP]
[\-term \fIstring\fP]
.PD 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Train a zeroth level classifier system (ZCS) to solve the cups problem 
with the implicit bucket brigade algorithm and a genetic algorithm. 
Solving this problem requires the ZCS to learn to remember important 
features from previous states, which makes this problem very challenging. 
The ZCS always starts in the same initial position. It interacts with its 
environment until it finds both cups, which (only at that point) 
yields a reward.  The simulation then restarts with the ZCS placed at 
the original location.  The progress of the ZCS is continuously 
plotted, while the statistics on the time to find both cups are calculated 
and displayed.  At the end of the simulation the classifiers that 
make up the final ZCS are saved to a log file. 
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-specs\ \fIstring\fP
World specification file.
.IP \fB\-steps\ \fIinteger\fP
Number of simulated trials.
.IP \fB\-seed\ \fIinteger\fP
Random seed for initial state.
.IP \fB\-size\ \fIinteger\fP
Population size.
.IP \fB\-sinit\ \fIdouble\fP
Initial classifier strength.
.IP \fB\-lrate\ \fIdouble\fP
BB learning rate.
.IP \fB\-drate\ \fIdouble\fP
BB discount rate.
.IP \fB\-trate\ \fIdouble\fP
Tax rate for strength reduce.
.IP \fB\-crate\ \fIdouble\fP
GA crossover rate.
.IP \fB\-mrate\ \fIdouble\fP
GA mutation rate.
.IP \fB\-grate\ \fIdouble\fP
GA invocation rate.
.IP \fB\-cover\ \fIdouble\fP
Covering factor.
.IP \fB\-wild\ \fIdouble\fP
Probability of # in cover.
.IP \fB\-avelen\ \fIinteger\fP
Length of windowed average.
.IP \fB\-inv
Invert all colors?
.IP \fB\-mag\ \fIinteger\fP
Magnification factor.
.IP \fB\-term\ \fIstring\fP
How to plot points.
.SH MISCELLANY
The file format for the specifications files must contain the
width and height of the world followed by the details of the
world in ASCII format, where '.' is an empty cell, 'O' is a wall,
and 'F' represent a cup.  See any of the examples in the 'data'
subdirectory of this distribution for more details.

The log file, 'zcscup.log', contains one line per classifier with
the condition string, the action string, and the strength of the
classifier.  The classifiers are sorted so the the strongest
classifiers are printed first.

The ASCII output of the program shows the most recent, windowed
average and the total average for the number of steps needed to
find both cups.
.SH HINTS
See the author's book, "The Computational Beauty of Nature," for
more details.
.SH BUGS
The simulation always restarts with the ZCS location at position
(0, 4), which really only makes sense for the data file
'data/cups1.txt'.  Hence, you may need to tailor your data files
to work around this or tweak the source code to try a different
problem variation.

No sanity checks are performed to make sure that any of the
options make sense.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1997, Gary William Flake.

Permission granted for any use according to the standard GNU
``copyleft'' agreement provided that the author's comments are
neither modified nor removed.  No warranty is given or implied.
